AUC score - Area Under Curve Gives the performance of the model. Good model represents to be 1, which means accuracy is 100%, 
            TPR/FPR are 100% prediction by model. Whereas 50% represents bad model, predicts outcome in random probability.
            Hence, business terms to understand the overall performance of model need to verify the better AUC score as threshold.

ROC Curve - TPR vs FPR at every probability setting. 

Gain/lift - It's a measure of the effectiveness of a classification model calculated as the ratio between the results obtained with and without the model.
            confusion matrix that evaluates models on the whole population
            whereas gain or lift chart evaluates model performance in a portion of the population. 
            eg: different credit scores in a predicted outcome, select a portion of the population and determines 10% to 100% counts and 
                respective target%. Same Lift gives the uplift of using model between without the model result.
                when we target first 10% population, target population will be 36% so expected lift by using model will be 3.6
                same we target 100% population, target population will be 100% so expected (response rate) lift by using model will be 1 
                for that overall popualtion.

KS Stats  - Kolmogorov-Smirnov chart  
            K-S is a measure of the degree of separation between the positive and negative distributions.
            It measures the discriminatory power of a model, checks whether the model is able to distinguish between events and non-events
            K-S statistic=100 will mean that the model is able to create two mutually exclusive groups with each group having a separate class 
            label of observations. 
            K-S Statistic=0 indicates a very poor model which fails to successfully distinguish between the classes.

            In our example, as our target is default then KS statistic will be the difference between the Cumulative default and Cumulative Non-defaulters observations. 
            Higher K-S value means that the model is good at separating the two classes.
            For a good model, the maximum K-S statistic should fall in the top three or four deciles as we expect the maximum differentiation 
            between the churners and non-churners to happen in the initial deciles only.
            both the classes that much measure is able to obtain.
           
        
Gini Score- Area between the random and model line tells us the additional lift that the model is able to get than the traditional. (responder rate)
            Gini coefficient = 2 × AUC-1
            Gini Coefficient tells us about the differentiating power of the model. (between the random and model) 
            In a ROC Curve, it is the area between the random model and the created model (ROC Curve).

Precision - TP/TP+FP

Recall    - TP/TP+FN

CM        - confusion matrix that evaluates models on the whole population

Type I  Error - False Positive
Type II Error - False Negative

Anamoly detection 

One class SVM - OK



Disadvantage of Logistic in imbalanced dataset 

https://www.datavedas.com/model-evaluation-classification-models/
https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-determine-the-best-model-6b9c584d0db4
saedsayad.com/model_evaluation_c.htm
https://towardsdatascience.com/the-use-of-knn-for-missing-values-cf33d935c637
http://ucanalytics.com/blogs/reject-inference-scorecards-banking-case-part-5/
https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2017/03/imbalanced-data-classification/

Flow to follow:

cm                  - confusion matrix that evaluates models on the whole population
model evaluation cm - defaulter vs non defaulters
accuracy 	    - 
recall              - TP/TP+FN
AUC                 - (performance of model) - 
Gini                - (explains the model response outcome, between random and model tell us additional lift of using the model than get using traditional) 
Gain/Lift           - gives the same, but it does on selected population
KS Stats            - measure of the degree of separation between the positive and negative distributions.
		      measures the discriminatory power of a model, checks whether the model is able to distinguish between events and non-events

Anamoly detection       - 
KNN for missing values  - KNN is an algorithm that is useful for matching a point with its closest k neighbors in a multi-dimensional space. 
                          It can be used for data that are continuous, discrete, ordinal and categorical which makes 
                          it particularly useful for dealing with all kind of missing data.
Freq for missing values - 


WoE in Logistic Regression - In these models it is common to use weight of evidence (WOE) coding of a nominal, ordinal, or discrete1
                             variable when preparing predictors for use in a logistic model. 
                             Weight of Evidence (WoE) is powerful technique to perform variable transformation & selection . 
                             It is widely used In credit scoring to measure the separation of good vs bad customers.(variables). 
                             Advantages :: - Handles missing values Handles outliers the transformation is based on logrithmic value of distribution. 
                             No need for dummy variables by using proper binning technique it can establish monotonic relationship btw the independent & dependent.

improvise model using:
- behavioral data stating trend analysis (ENR, SPEND, Txn CNT latest 6 months, repayment behavior using CASA trxn),whereas holding other products
- Power models for better performance especially when imbalanced sets available
- parameter optimization in the selected model 



Bagging is used for reducing Overfitting in order to create strong learners for generating accurate predictions.

Boosting is an ensemble technique to combine weak learners to create a strong learner that can make accurate predictions. 
Boosting starts out with a base classifier / weak classifier that is prepared on the training data.
In the next iteration, the new classifier focuses on or places more weight to those cases which were incorrectly classified in the last round.

Ada Boost is the first original boosting technique which creates a highly accurate prediction rule by combining many weak and inaccurate rules.  
Each classifier is serially trained with the goal of correctly classifying examples in every round that were incorrectly classified in the previous round.

https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-use-machine-learning-for-anomaly-detection-and-condition-monitoring-6742f82900d7
Use PCA for reduction of many variables and making the multivariate stat analysis (Anomaly detection) using probability with Gaussian distribution (Standard
deviation) and set that prob for future prediction. If falls under that will be counted as anomaly data points.
